Welcome to our program.
What are the benefits of making the effort to serve in an unassigned territory?
Join this family as they travel to a distant area to support the kingdom preaching work.
We will see how such a decision builds their faith in our young ones.
Have you started noticing the opposite sex?
And yet, you know you're not old enough to get married.
What can help you to take control of such natural feelings?
We will find out later in the program.
We'll also hear the fascinating story of Eric Frost,
a brother who was sent to a Nazi concentration camp during World War II because of his faith.
How did he and his fellow brothers help each other to remain faithful?
You will find this story very encouraging.
That much more is coming your way on this May program of J. W. Broadcasting.
I would first like to read to you some passages from the Bible found at Ephesians chapter 3 verses 14 through 19.
This will also establish the theme for my comments this month.
Ephesians 3 starting with verse 14. Paul said,
For this reason I bend my knees to the Father to whom every family in heaven and on earth owes its name.
I pray that he may grant you through the abundance of his glory to be made mighty in the man you are inside with power through his spirit
and that through your faith you may have the Christ dwell in your hearts with love.
May you be rooted and established in the foundation in order that with all the holy ones you may be thoroughly able to comprehend fully what is the breadth and length and height and depth
and to know the love of the Christ which surpasses knowledge so that you may be filled with all the fullness that God gives.
Now verse 15 is the inspiration for my theme namely glorified Jehovah, the one to whom every family owes its name.
The family unit is under a vicious attack in these last days.
The insight will lived up to its name under the heading family.
The very insightful comment reads this way.
The inspired scriptures have foretold a vicious attack on the family institution with a consequent breaking down of morality and of human society outside the congregation.
The article pointed out that in the last days a condition in which disobedience to parents, disloyalty and absence of natural affection would be rife.
Even among those having a form of godly devotion.
How can married couples, parents and children counteract such a diabolical attack?
Do you remember those verses we read in Ephesians chapter 3 verse 16 said that the one to whom every family owes its name Jehovah would grant us to be made mighty in the person we are inside.
Yes, Jehovah can give us the internal spiritual strength to fight back against Satan's efforts to destroy the family.
How?
By being immersed in God's word, in particular by imitating the loving way that Jesus treated his disciples.
Did you note that Ephesians 3 17 said we are to have the Christ dwell in our hearts with love?
Yes.
If each of us cherishes the Christ in our hearts to the point that he dwells or resides there constantly, our family will not only survive but it will truly thrive.
This will be so evident that verse 17 further states that we will be rooted and established on the foundation, we will be solid.
And keep in mind that 1 Corinthians 3 11 says that the foundation on which we build is Jesus Christ.
Then verse 18 of Ephesians chapter 3 indicates that our spiritual peripheral vision will be enhanced.
We will not have spiritual blind spots that could allow the spirit of the world to creep into the family.
That verse says that we will be thoroughly able to comprehend fully what is the breadth and length and height and depth.
All aspects of Jesus' personality will come into play as we interact with family members.
Verse 19 sums up the result when it says that we would then have come to know the love of the Christ which surpasses knowledge, granted.
Knowledge is important but it is the application of Christ's like love that will preserve our family keeping it vibrantly intact.
Family life in these critical last days could be likened to those who suffer from diabetes.
It is believed that diabetes is caused by both genetic and environmental factors.
Similarly, all in the family have inherited sin and imperfection from our first human parents Adam and Eve as if genetically.
However, we are also exposed to the ever more toxic environmental factors of Satan's evil world.
Most who suffer from a serious case of diabetes need to use two methods to successfully relieve the symptoms and lead a normal life.
They have to watch their diet and in many cases take an injection of insulin daily.
Spiritually, we need to avoid the sickly, sweet junk food that the world promotes in movies, talk shows, the internet, and in print.
Just as with the person who has diabetes, this requires a permanent lifestyle change from what we might have exposed ourselves to in the past.
In addition to avoiding unwholesome junk food from Satan's system, we also need to take daily injections of God's Word and other wholesome provisions.
This has become more and more important the deeper we get into these last days.
How has our organization provided this when it comes to family life?
Well, in the early 1900s, the focus was on preaching the good news.
Little attention was given to building strong Christian marriages and families.
For a time, marriage was even discouraged, well beyond the intent of the scriptures.
I did some checking and, commendably, between 1919 and 1921, there was a feature in the Golden Age magazine once or twice a month called
the Juvenile Bible Study. In 1920, a brochure was released called the Golden Age ABC.
Then it wasn't until 1941 that the now famous book entitled Children was handed out to all young ones at the convention that year.
But as the last days progressed, more and more information for families was produced.
For example, in the 1970s, the book making your family life happy was released.
About the same time, the books listening to the great teacher and your youth getting the best out of it were published.
In 1982, a wait began a regular series that has run for decades entitled Young People Ask.
We now have two up-to-date books with the same title and the series of articles continues on the JW.org website.
We have the book Learn from the Great Teacher and so many features and activities for young ones on the website that I would be out of time if I try to enumerate them all.
There are also regular articles in our magazines about marriage and family life.
And I will certainly never forget the privilege I had in 2012 to introduce the animated series Become Jehovah's Friend.
That is proved to be a blessing for both young ones and their parents.
What a teaching tool for both.
In 2014, I attended the International Convention in Atlanta, Georgia, here in the United States.
After a little two-year-old girl saw my face on the big jumbo screen giving a talk, she eagerly started searching all around her for someone.
When her parents asked her who she was looking for, she said, Caleb, he must be here because I saw his grandfather giving a talk.
Many children asked to meet Caleb in person when they visit Bethel.
Two postings of an item every month is making quite an impression on little hearts.
With Bible principles being impressed on the minds and hearts of children so early, we prayerfully anticipate many spiritually-minded teenagers in the years to come.
We have so much healthy spiritual food for counteracting family diabetes.
For this, we give all glory to Jehovah, the one to whom every family owes its name.
One of the favorite passages of Scripture that anyone professing to be Christian loves is the 23rd Psalm.
Family heads. Can we benefit from imitating not only the fine shepherd Jesus but also the great shepherd Jehovah God?
I'm going to borrow the text of the 23rd Psalm and adjust the word so that we can sense a family's tranquility when headship is exercised properly.
In fact, you husbands, as the Scriptures read, imagine it is your wife's voice describing the effect your headship has on your family.
My husband is our shepherd. We will lack nothing. In grassy pastures, refreshing recreation, he makes us lie down.
He leads us to well-watered resting places, meetings and conventions. He refreshes us. He leads us in the ministry and the paths of righteousness for the sake of Jehovah's name.
Though we walk in the valley of deep economic shadow, we fear no harm for dad is with us.
You rod in your staff, loving discipline, reassure us. You prepare a table of family worship helping the children for us before our enemies.
You refresh our heads with oil. Our cup of family well-being is well-filled.
Surely goodness and loyal love will pursue our family all the days of our life and our family will dwell in the house of Jehovah for all our days.
No further application called for. We feel the sense of security that envelops the interior rooms of such a home, don't we?
Do you remember the point made in Ephesians chapter 3 which we read earlier?
We are to treasure Jesus' personality and let it dwell in our heart.
If all in the family make a determined effort to treat each other like Jesus would, we can conquer the world.
Yes, we, his spiritual family in heaven and all humans on earth who dedicate their lives to him give glory to Jehovah.
Indeed, we thank Jehovah for all the spiritual provisions he's made through his word and organization to protect every family who takes up his name.
Made Jehovah bless all of you families as you strive to win the war that Satan wages against you in these last days.
An important aspect of keeping the family spiritual health intact is by making full use of the family worship arrangement.
In this dramatization pay attention to how the family head is aware of the needs of the family and how he plans accordingly.
Hi, my name is Joe. A few weeks ago we all sat together for supper.
I was so tired and my wife Jenny felt the same way.
She always does it all, taking care of the children so well, but it was not easy for her in recent weeks.
Sarah felt that we are too restrictive on how she dresses. She just does not understand.
It was hard to convince her and to motivate her to share in the field service is becoming a challenge.
It was not always like this. She used to enjoy going out in field service.
And Tom, he is such a good boy, but all of a sudden he was raving about the games his classmates have on their phones.
It's always about having supernatural powers and it fascinated him even though he is small.
But when I asked him to take out the garbage suddenly his superpowers left him.
And Mike, our smallest, it was hard to get him to go to bed or clean up his room.
I realized there are a few things we need to speak about.
Joe came to me and we talked a lot about our children that same evening.
We wondered what would be the best for them. We prayed together. Then we had an idea.
The following day we asked our children if we can consider Noah as the theme for our next family worship.
All of us liked the idea. Each one of us should prepare something.
Mike, Tom and I wanted to build the ark. And of course we need the animals.
And Sarah should collect pictures for this story from our publications.
I also had to take time to think again about the story of Noah and how it can help our family.
Jenny and Sarah were responsible for the wardrobe and food.
While preparing, I got the chance to speak with Sarah about her dress in a more relaxed setting.
She understood that like Noah, when it comes to Jehovah's commands, we need to do just so.
Then the evening arrived. We talked about how it was before the flood.
And what kind of world Noah and his family lived in. Noah's family needed real courage to preach.
They had to explain about the rain and how the ark would be needed to survive the flood.
Something that had never happened before. All the people thought they were crazy.
And while we were talking about this, it came out that Sarah felt embarrassed when she met a schoolmate in the field service recently.
I realized Noah must have felt the same as me. And yet he was so courageous.
Dad read Genesis 6 verse 9. Noah walked with the true God.
So he could have every confidence in his friend Jehovah. I want to be just like that.
For Tom, I found a great picture.
Dad told us that the world at this time was very bad. People were fighting and many were afraid.
And that is why Jehovah brought the flood.
It made me think about the games from my schoolmates. I like to play those games.
But I know that Jehovah does not like that. So why do I?
And the best part was when we got inside the ark.
Then our red Genesis 6 19. And bring into the ark two of every sort of living creature.
Dad showed us how the animals went into the ark.
Each one had its own place and they went inside two at a time without any chaos.
I explained that we also need to keep our rooms clean, like the ark.
I saw that Mike got the point. We wanted to keep in mind Genesis 6 22.
And Noah did according to all that God had commanded him. He did just so.
And then the rain came. But we survived. That was great.
We all realized Noah also must have been tired sometimes. But he never gave up.
This was a good lesson for us.
We must take care of our family as Noah did also by having a regular family worship like this.
That example really showed many of the great benefits of family worship.
In addition to the obvious coming together to learn more about our Heavenly Father,
we saw how family worship gave the daughter an opportunity to open up about matters that had been bothering her.
And thanks to the good work of the parents, all of the children learned something they could apply in their daily lives.
We've now invited brother and sister Ortiz from New Britain, Connecticut to visit our studio.
Brother Ortiz serves as an elder and as a regular pioneer.
He's had many additional privileges of service over the years.
And Lynette has been regular pioneering for over six years.
However, the reason we wanted to talk with them is that thus far,
they have successfully countered Satan's attacks on their family.
We'd like to hear how they accomplished this.
First of all, Freddie, tell us a little bit about your family.
Neither Lynette nor I were raising the truth.
However, we met and we felt in love.
At that time, marriage was not for me.
So we started a romantic relationship for two years before we started attending to the first meeting at the Kingdom Hall.
So now after we started studying the Bible, we took two studies per week,
and we knew that this was the truth.
But also, we learned that Jehovah held Jehovah's Seas in Marari,
so we needed to do some changes.
Lynette's parents want her to continue with her education.
So we needed to change our behavior.
So two years after, we did the changes,
number one, because we didn't love Jehovah.
And we too, because we loved what we were learning.
It was worth it to follow Bible principles.
So two years later, we got married, and we got baptized,
and then we got married.
Very good.
Lynette, you were raised without an knowledge of Jehovah God.
What changes did you both have to make to ensure your own family would have a fine foundation and be successful?
Well, prior to our baptism, Freddie had a serious drinking problem.
Based on the way we were raised, there was a lot of jealousy going on.
And I would say, like of confidence and trust in each other.
My Bible teacher, thankfully, suggested us to study the book,
making your family life happy, and we ended up studying that book twice.
The publication and the Bible principles in it became the foundation of our wonderful marriage,
and the happy family we enjoyed today.
Very nice. So Freddie, maybe you can tell us about your children and what they're doing with their lives now.
We have two sons, Gabriel. He's the oldest one.
He started regular party near where he was 14 years old.
At 18, he was appointed as ministerial servant.
At 22 years old, he's been working at the plumbing department at the Warwick construction for more than two years.
Adrian is now 18 years old, and he also started regular party near when he was 14.
Currently, he handles the account for the congregation and other privates as well.
Well, they both have had an early start in theirocratic careers.
It's commendable. I'm sure you're both proud of them.
And we're confident that Jehovah, the one to whom every family owes its name,
is pleased that they're giving an answer to his taunter.
In addition to the family lifebook, what else contributed to the success your family has experienced, Lynette?
The governing body has provided with so many publications with directions for families,
of course, always in Jehovah's word.
So we decided early on that whenever a question or an issue came up,
we will not make any decision based on impulse.
Instead, we will research it in the publications.
We pray to Jehovah for him to give us wisdom and we even pray for him to guide us
to find the right time to talk to each other or to counsel the boys.
I have always heard that there were stages on the shelf life and personality development.
So I researched it in advance as to what to expect.
In that way, we were not surprised when we saw changes in attitudes or ideas.
And that helped us realize what needed to be addressed or corrected
as opposed to what was normal for that stage in the boys' life.
Very practical. Freddie, what can you add?
Over the years, I have learned how essential it is to become a good listener and also understanding.
I tell my family how much I love them every day because we never know in circumstances by change.
Family worship is very important for us. I know it's easy to put off,
but the benefits are hard to meet.
Well, before this arrangement started, as a family, we value the Bible study with a family.
I learned that a fetus is six months.
He can recognize family's voice.
So I started a Bible study with my son when they were still under womb.
And continue to do so after that.
I know that secular work and other activities can block
to a regular program, but we need to fight that tendency.
And we want to succeed in family worship.
Very good. Well, it seems your efforts paid off when we consider how well your family's done spiritually.
In the close relationship you have with each other.
Now, in that, it sounds as if the family is perfect.
No challenges. Is that the case?
No, not at all. First Corinthians 10, 13 says that Christians will face challenges that are common to them.
And we have faced the normal challenges that comes with racing a family.
The same verse indicates that if we do things Jehovah's way,
we may increase the opportunity for him to make the way out for us.
One unexpected challenge that has changed our family dynamics over the years now
was when Freddie was diagnosed with cancer in 2012.
The treatment was aggressive and took its toll on his health.
Our whole lifestyle changed. We had to move out from our house to an apartment.
We gave away our dog's bike and we had to wash our expenses really closely to keep going.
This could have put a lot of strain in our family and our marriage and in spirituality.
But again, by praying to Jehovah constantly and applying by both principles,
I can say my marriage and my family has never been better.
Spiritually, we kept our routine and we all stay in full-time service throughout the ordeal.
The boys have cooperated very well. They have offered to work to give us money.
But we prefer for them to keep focused in the kingdom because we are confident that Jehovah will add on to the things we need.
Freddie has been a great example for all of us because he pushes himself to keep his spirit to our routine.
You never see him complaining or in a bad mood.
And that has been very inspiring for the rest of the family.
It's quite a story.
You folks will certainly relate to the convention drama video that was advertised on our April program.
Freddie, we're very sorry to hear about your physical condition.
Are there any favorite scriptures that you've used to help keep you going spiritually and stay strong?
There are many of them. Just to mention a few.
Philippians chapter 4, 6 and 7 have been my life since 2012.
I have to pray to Jehovah constantly so he can give me the strength that I need to overcome my health.
And also Philippians says that he will give us peace of mind.
In addition, he will safeguard our heart.
And that's something I've been seeing from Jehovah.
Also, Isaiah 41, 10, say that does not be anxious for I am your God.
Those words give me confidence that he will keep on helping us in these circumstances of different circumstances of our life.
I do understand them. I have a lot of responsibilities in the household.
So I have to revert for verse 31 verse 10 to 31.
And the way they describe all the responsibilities,
a good wife, might have to shoulder for the family.
So brother Mary, she's been prober to 31 wife.
A good wife for sure.
You've obviously shown how much you love and respect each other.
That's commendable.
And you're focused on being the best parents you could be as a good example for parents viewing the program at this time.
This will come as a surprise to you.
But we'd like to invite your two sons out to see what they remember from growing up in the family.
We have Gabriel and Adrian with us.
Mom's getting a little teary eyes.
And I just say, it was a surprise to see.
So Gabriel, since you're the oldest, we'll start with you.
What do you remember about your family, like first in Puerto Rico and later here in the United States?
I remember faithfully going to all the meetings and going out on service every Saturday.
That was just a routine.
In Puerto Rico, my dad had to work a lot though.
And like he said before, that's easy to get in the way of a good family worship routine.
But I can honestly say, once we made that transition or moving over here, that helped us to have a good family worship routine.
And it has helped us to get closer and closer each day.
And now Adrian, anything you can add about the home line?
Yeah, my mom and dad have always shown a great love for Jehovah.
But also for each other.
So as kids, you could just sense that.
So love and respect is what we've always known.
Even now that my brother and I are older, we have a great bond with each other.
We love each other and we could tell each other everything about our lives.
And as due to that love and respect that they have shown.
And even if there are disagreements, which there's always going to be disagreements because it's an imperfect family.
But that love is always there to bridge those differences.
I'd also like to add something that helped me a lot was a routine that my dad and I had.
Right before I'm going to school, we would always read the daily texts.
And he would always say, behave.
And remember that Jehovah loves you.
And I don't think he knows how much that really helped me go through everyday challenges at school.
That's priceless.
Now, very nice observations.
I'm interested in understanding what prompted you to regularly pioneer when you're only 14 years old.
It was at a point where my dad lost his job.
Rather than stressing about it, worrying about it.
He looked at things with a spiritual perspective.
So he started to pioneer.
And since our schedules match perfectly, I was his little pioneer, buddy.
I would go out on service with him whenever he needed it.
And I feel like if the spiritual families focus on spiritual matters, it helps them to come closer.
And I can't imagine how our relationship and respect for one another can be any better than what it is now.
Very nice.
Adrian, you began pioneering when you were 14 as well.
How do you think that affected you as a person?
Well, first of all, the reason why I started pioneering was because I was going out in service with the rest of my family.
And since they were already pioneering, I was getting the time in.
But I do think that taking on the responsibility of getting at least 70 hours a month in the service.
Does make you think differently than 14 than it would have otherwise.
I think it has helped me mature spiritually.
And it has contributed to me being used in my full potential in the congregation.
And honestly, I wouldn't trade it for anything.
Well, maybe going to Bethel.
Gabriel, back to you, tell us what was it like when you learned that your dad had a serious health problem
and would not be able to provide for the family like he used to?
It was probably one of the biggest challenges I have ever faced.
When my dad got diagnosed with cancer, it was about the same time that I got my call to Bethel.
And I was torn, I was divided.
I felt like if I was to go to Bethel now, it would be selfish of me to leave my family at a time like that.
But my family always had a spiritual view on things.
Insighting scriptures like Matthew 633 constantly helped me to see if as a whole as a family.
We put Kingdom interest first that Jehovah was going to provide because he's a loving father and friend.
Then my dad lost his job.
And again, all these feelings came up.
But my family was adamant that let me know that the congregation had been taking care of them for months now.
And then doing some simplifying on their own helped them as well.
And I didn't have to worry about anything.
I do know that there's a scripture that says that we got to take care of our own.
So I do anything I can to help my family back home.
The only thing I hope is that I can have a good faith like they've shown through these difficult times.
Well, thank all of you for joining us.
I think all of us are feeling that emotion and feel very close to you for sharing that.
As a father, I can appreciate all that Freddie is trying to do is head of the family.
And on that, your support beyond normal is very much to be commended.
And we can tell your family is thriving spiritually and we pray Jehovah will continue to bless your efforts.
Come what may.
And we thank you Gabriel and Adrian for your surprise to the studio.
Thank you very much for taking the time to be interviewed.
Thank you for the privilege.
Thank you.
Because we just learned an excellent way of maintaining the spirituality of the family
is by spending quality time together in the ministry.
We would now like to introduce you to a family from Russia.
They traveled far away to work together in unassigned territory in Siberia.
Their experience confirms how spiritual activities not only build our faith
but can also bring our family closer to each other.
We are traveling to a very interesting territory.
It is on the shores of Lake Baikal.
From where we live, it is 600 kilometers.
We have so many memories to take home.
The scenery is always stunning and all types of weather.
Here there are beautiful cliffs and valleys.
We cross several mountain passes.
Then we go by ferry.
It felt very strange being in the car while crossing the river.
When we have the opportunity, we witness to people we meet on the way.
Why do sincere people trust the Holy Scriptures?
Please have a look at what it says here.
All Scripture is inspired of God.
We usually serve an isolated territory for a week or more.
We have come to the same place where we were last year.
So we already know a lot about it.
Living in a tent is very different from living in the city.
Here we don't have any conveniences like a toilet or shower.
The only place to wash is in Lake Baikal, which is freezing.
This simple life is like an adventure.
As we have quite a big group, there are 12 of us.
We have also organized our spiritual routine.
We consider the daily texts together and take part in discussing our publications using the questions.
We have a friendly, relaxed atmosphere.
Everybody enjoys it.
Our isolated territory where we are preaching is a rural area.
Here we don't have any prepared maps.
So when we have our meetings for field service, we divide up all taking different streets.
We also think about what clothes to wear.
Our experience has shown that our clothes can help us to win over these people.
So we try to dress simply.
We don't wear ties.
The people there are kind.
Sometimes they even invite us in.
We can have discussions with some of them.
Sometimes long ones.
There you meet more receptive people than unresponsive ones.
And that really is encouraging.
It makes you just want to keep on preaching without stopping.
The trips have helped our son make spiritual progress.
For us as his parents, that is the greatest blessing.
For example, after one of these trips, he became an unbaptized publisher.
This territory is different from what I am used to.
So I was worried.
I didn't know what sort of people lived there or what their attitude was towards witnesses.
But after praying when knocking the first door, my fear disappeared.
I was able to place 270 trips.
While we were witnessing, we showed the people the addresses in our publications
so that they could write if they found what they had read interesting.
We usually start witnessing about 12 noon and we finish around 5 pm.
Then the relaxation part of our day begins.
We have a campfire, some games, some music and fun.
Early in the day, we used our energy in the ministry.
And afterwards, we were able to relax and enjoy each other's company.
So we combine both our ministry and relaxation.
One of the delights of these trips is the fish, the famous bicole omel.
These trips really strengthen the unity and our family.
We really have drawn closer together.
It is invigorating and enriches us spiritually.
We experience pure joy from knowing that Jehovah has blessed our efforts.
We feel like we have our batteries charged for the entire year.
It is very encouraging to see such a spiritually focused family.
And did you notice that it was after one such trip that their son became an unbaptized publisher?
I'm sure that brought much joy to his parents.
Are you interested in a preaching assignment and territory seldom worked?
If so, form a group of no more than 20 publishers
and ask the elders in your congregation for further instructions
and an application for territory seldom worked.
Once you have filled out the form, the congregation service committee will review it
and submit it to your local branch.
Theocratic activities such as family worship, spending time in the ministry together,
along with balanced amounts of recreation, can truly fortify our family.
As we saw in the interview with the Ortiz family,
such spiritual preparation helps us when we face challenges.
In this dramatization, a family followed scriptural counsel
when they faced the challenge of having to relocate to another city.
For 23 years, we've called this place home.
We've raised a family here.
Two beautiful girls.
Six months ago, my boss called me into his office.
The company was restructuring.
They valued my work, but if I wanted to keep my job, I would need to move.
It was a difficult decision.
My job allowed me to support my family well
and it had never interfered with our spiritual routine.
We said many prayers about it.
We discussed it as a family, and we decided to move.
But we were anxious.
My family has only ever known one home, one congregation.
My girls have many friends in the congregation.
Good example, so we're helping them to serve Jehovah.
This is going to be hard on all of us.
A brother in our hall had moved into the congregation a few years ago.
I asked him how his family coped with the challenge.
He said that the key to staying grounded
is maintaining the one thing that should never change.
Our spiritual routine, but that requires work and planning.
To make sure our move doesn't stop us from getting to the meetings,
sharing in the ministry, spending time with our brothers and sisters
and looking after our family.
His advice was spot on.
After some research, I found a scripture that illustrated our situation.
And the rain poured down, and the floods came, and the winds blew,
and lashed against that house.
But it did not cave in, for it had been founded on the rock.
The discrete man built his house on good foundations.
It took a plan, and he worked hard.
When the storm came, his house survived.
As a family, we needed a plan that would help us
spiritually grounded through our move.
So we wrote our own plan.
Just like the discrete man,
we wanted to build our move on a strong spiritual foundation.
So we made a visit to our new congregation ahead of our move.
Over the years, it becomes a comfort to walk into a kingdom hall
and see familiar faces.
Walking into our new congregation reminded me
how much we're going to miss everyone.
But the Bible tells us that with the measure we measure out,
others will measure to us in return.
So we resolve to show love first.
Hello, Angerthika.
Hi, I'm Samantha, nice to meet you.
The best way to get to know our new congregation
is to work with the brothers and sisters in the ministry.
No matter where we go,
we'll find people that love Jehovah and each other.
Moving day finally arrived.
The last boxes were packed.
We got the door one final time
and began our journey to our new home.
It took effort, but visiting the congregation ahead of time
was well worth it.
Look, we already have friends here.
Unpacking seemed to never end.
But the one thing that we all promised ourselves
at family worship was that we would not let our move
affect our spiritual routine.
Does anyone see my ties? Found them!
We planned that we wouldn't let anything stop us
from going to the meetings.
The ministry is very different.
We've had to adapt and learn new techniques.
The brothers and sisters are different too.
It's important not to focus on negative comparisons.
Instead, be positive.
During this transition, it is especially important
to be sensitive to our spiritual needs.
Family worship is vital.
Keeping spiritually grounded through such a big transition
isn't easy, especially with a family.
It took a lot of time and energy to care for our needs.
Not just spiritually, but emotionally too.
Planning ahead like the discrete man
helped our family to stay spiritually grounded.
Having a spiritually strong family
prepares us also for other changes in life.
Perhaps you are in your teens
and you're starting to notice those of the opposite sex.
Such emotions are natural and are part of growing up.
But if you're not old enough to get married,
what do you need to keep in mind?
This young sister made wise decisions
with the loving help of her parents.
Hey, yours.
Yeah, thanks.
You're really right.
Yeah, and you're Sean.
Yeah, I've seen you around.
You play a good basketball.
Thanks, so do you.
So you want to hang out sometime?
Sure.
My name is Lily, and I sort of have this problem.
There's a boy named Sean that recently moved to our school.
I know I'm not supposed to like anyone who's not a witness.
The trouble was he is a witness.
Sean and his family moved into our congregation.
And the more I saw of him, the more I liked him.
Like I said, I had a problem.
Every day I see couples my age at school.
To me, they look happy.
Honestly, I wanted that happiness too.
My parents noticed my problem too.
And talked about it that night.
I'm pretty soon.
I didn't feel alone anymore.
The next day, my mom invited me to go with her to run an errand.
Afterward, we went to a little cafe.
She asked me how things were going.
At first, I didn't want to tell her.
But she made me feel really comfortable.
So I told her my feelings for Sean.
Expecting her to think bad of me.
But she didn't.
Everything you're feeling is naturally.
I remember having the same feelings when I was your age too.
Really?
It's true.
That's just how Jehovah created us, honey.
And because he created us, he knows the best way for us to be happy.
And that's all he wants for us.
And that's all daddy, and I want for you too.
She didn't scold me.
She didn't make me feel embarrassed.
And most importantly, she didn't seem to be in a rush.
My mom wasn't the only one helping me.
My dad was preparing to help me with my problem too.
That evening, we had family worship.
And once again, they just let me talk.
They told me I didn't have to hold back.
So I didn't.
I just don't know what to do.
Lily, thank you for telling us how you feel.
Let me ask you something.
Why do you think Jehovah created us with these natural feelings toward the opposite sex?
So that one day a man or woman can marry.
That's right.
In fact, a good marriage is like two skaters on the ice.
A beautiful performance can seem effortless, but is it really?
No.
No one would even attempt that without practice a capable partner,
or the right kind of guidance, right?
Yeah.
Well, it's the same with a good marriage, sweetie.
It doesn't just happen.
It too depends on a good partner, coordinated effort,
but most importantly, wise counsel from Jehovah.
In fact, could you please turn with me to Psalm chapter 32 and verse 8,
and read that for us?
Sure.
It says, I will give you insight and instruct you in the way you should go.
I will give you advice with my eye upon you.
Lily, Jehovah loves us very much.
And if we listen to him, we'll make good decisions in our life
with absolutely no regrets.
We talk some more, and then I got some homework.
My dad gave me some articles he printed out for me to read.
So I did.
As I read the words and started meditating on them, I realized something.
By holding off dating a little longer, I wasn't missing out.
Rather, I was preparing myself.
I could use the time now to focus on something much more important.
My relationship with Jehovah.
I could also gain Christian qualities and experience that will help me later
if I ever do get married.
A strong spiritual upbringing can truly be a protection for us
when young, but also strengthens us as adults.
Further, Eric Frost was a young man in Germany
who set a good example in making wise decisions early in life.
He was born in 1900, baptized 23 years later,
and entered the full-time ministry in 1928.
Not long after, he was put in charge of the underground work
of the persecuted witnesses of Jehovah in Germany,
carrying well for that assignment for eight months
until he was incarcerated.
In this archived audio recording,
you will hear the fascinating experience of how Brother Frost
composed a kingdom melody in the middle of Saxonhausen
and Nazi concentration camp.
I always had the desire to compose music.
As everybody knows, we had the hardest work
and suffered the hardest in the concentration camps.
We were starved.
The labor exceeded our strength,
and the harassment was often unbearable.
So as usual, I wanted to find a way to build up the brothers.
We had such a fine unity there in the Saxonhausen camp.
I felt moved to compose a song that we could sing together
for our mutual encouragement.
Every morning, we marched to the construction site
of a sewage plant in Aranjanburg.
Our labor group consisted of about 40 brothers
under the strict watch of the SS.
While marching, my mind went back and forth and
and gradually a melody formed.
That's how the music was developed.
But how could the verses enter the camp
without being able to write them down?
I found a few brothers who helped me.
I repeated the first verse to one of them until he knew it by heart,
either while marching or while driving the wheelbarrow at work.
I told the second verse to another brother,
still to others, the third and the fourth.
In the evening, I asked each of the brothers
to recite his verse.
That's how the song came to life.
In the mornings, when the forty of us
were marching through the streets of Aranjanburg,
we already felt worn out.
When one started humming that melody,
the entire labor group trembled with excitement.
We had to control ourselves to not break out loud singing.
That would have been dangerous, of course.
They would have brought us back to the camp
and severely punished us.
And God, only our church does come to battle.
Only He can see us and offer us,
only He can see us and offer us.
As we sat together in the evenings
When someone started humming that melody, quite a number of us sang along, and we rejoiced,
our eyes were shining.
This gave us new courage and hope.
We also had evenings of worship, talks were given, and we had copies of the watchtower that
we studied together.
So we were able to have some real times of peace, and special encouragement, and felt
uplifted by that song.
Brother Frost, who was one of the anointed, finished his earthly course in 1987.
Brother World War II and nine years of imprisonment, he served as the overseer of our branch
office in Germany for ten years.
This was before the arrangement was instituted of having a branch committee oversee the
work.
The very descriptive paintings that you saw in this segment were painted by a brother who
was imprisoned in a concentration camp similar to the one Brother Frost was in.
I'm sure you recognized the song.
You can find it in our songbook, though the tune is a little different.
When Brother Frost found out that his song had been included in it, he was overjoyed
and said, my clumsy lyrics were transformed into three wonderful verses.
If you turn to song 17 in your songbook, you'll find the song originally composed by
Brother Frost forward, you witnesses.
Like Brother Frost, we want to do our best to expand our ministry for Jehovah.
One way of doing that is by learning a language.
In this music video, pay close attention to the blessings that resulted from this couple's
heartfelt desire to serve in the foreign language field.
So, let's just take a moment and try to help you decide, because if you step on over,
you'll be so happy you try.
You got to step on over, because when you step on Sidoni, the preaching work is amazing.
With oval wow music, sad bad, we'll drive in closer.
Be there to be stepped on the way.
Did you notice some of the blessings this couple enjoyed as a result of learning a new
language?
Not only were they able to expand their ministry and show their love for neighbor, but
they also spent a lot of time together as a couple, reaching the goal of learning a
language as a family.
By working hard to build up and protect our family spiritually, we can all take part
in glorifying Jehovah, the one to whom every family owes its name.
We'll also enjoy a Bethel Morning Worship that is now available on Video On Demand.
It ties very well into the theme of this month's program.
The video is entitled Practice Godly Devotion in Our Own Household, and is presented
by Brother David Schaefer, a helper to the Teaching Committee.
But we have more in store for you, we're also pleased to announce the release of a new
brochure entitled, Answers to Ten Questions Young People Ask.
The content of this 32-page full color brochure is based on articles in awake and the
two volumes of questions young people ask, answers that work, as well as the young people
ask articles on the JW.org website.
This new brochure will be particularly helpful to those who speak a language in which
that material is not available.
However, all young people can benefit from this new brochure because the original articles
have been updated and rewritten.
Each section of the brochure addresses one question.
After stating the question, the section begins with a pointed statement under the feature,
why it matters.
Saying the reader know why that question is relevant, then what would you do scenario
is presented, putting the reader in a hypothetical situation related to the topic.
After discussing various principles, scriptural advice directs the reader to the best answers
for that particular question.
The ten questions brochure is interactive, allowing the reader to write responses to the
various questions presented.
The final topic, how can the Bible help me?
Is designed to invite readers who are not Jehovah's Witnesses to accept a Bible study.
The brochure makes numerous references to the JW.org website and directs readers to more
information that can be found there.
Also, the brochure is designed in such a way that young people can be comfortable sharing
it with their peers and with others in the ministry.
This brochure is already approved for translation into 324 languages.
Of these languages, 223 do not produce a wake and 262 have not produced the young people
ask book.
So we expect that answers to ten questions young people ask will help many more use benefit
from the Bible's practical wisdom.
Following this program, digital formats of the brochure will become available on the JW.org
website, the JW Library Add and on Watchtower Online Library as they are produced in each
language.
Additionally, printed copies of the brochure can be requested through your congregation
at the conclusion of this program.
Before we finish, we'd like to share this postcard from the city of Liviv and Ukraine.
The city has approximately 800,000 inhabitants and is surrounded by beautiful forests.
But Liviv is also the home of 5,000 of our dear brothers and sisters.
One of the 49 congregations in Liviv is the Populna-Centralna congregation.
This congregation has 107 publishers, including 42 regular pioneers.
Last year, during the month of August, 70% of them took part in some form of pioneer
service, despite the fact that this congregation has the smallest territory in the city.
Public witnessing using carts has proven very effective, and the publishers also cover
remote territories and small villages outside the city.
The publishers of the Populna-Centralna congregation send their warm Christian love to all of
us worldwide.
This is JW Broadcasting from Brooklyn, New York.